message size and blended tests (#18)
CS-6381/FinalProject: DesignOfExperiments/Performance-MQ-MessageSize.md

# Performance Experiment - MQ - Message Size

> The goal of this experiment is to benchmark how this technology performs when hardware resources are plentiful and the number of actors (publishers and subscribers) in the system varies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goal of this experiment is to benchmark how this technology performs when hardware resources are plentiful and the size of messages varies.
```

The program should send 1,000 messages and then terminate once all messages are sent and all acknowledgements are received.

Link to your program’s usage here:

[Replace me](Replace me)

### Consumer Program

Design a **python** program utilizing your assigned MQ technology that consumes as many messages per second as possible (For example: `while true: consume_message()`)

For MQ’s that run under multiple operating modes, run under the mode that is most reliable.
An example of this would be RabbitMQ which can use “at most once” and “at least once” delivery by choosing whether or not to use acknowledgements. [Reference](https://www.rabbitmq.com/reliability.html). You should choose “at least once”.

The consumer doesn’t have to do anything with the message; only retrieve it.

The program should terminate once all messages are consumed.

For data collection, the program should output (to standard output) a CSV of message ID’s, the time they were received, and the time they were acknowledged (if applicable).

Ex output:

```
1,1617516000,1617516005
2,1617516010,1617516015
...
```

Link to your program’s usage here:

[Replace me](Replace me)

### Data Processor

> The experiment designers will provide a program that accepts a list of producer csv files and a list of consumer csv files. It should output 2 CSV’s that marry up the matching ID’s of messages and contains calculated results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The experiment designers will provide a program that accepts a list of producer csv files and a list of consumer csv files. It should output 2 CSV’s that marry up the matching ID’s of messages and contain calculated results.
```
Fix my typo

The second csv should output the number of messages sent in each second of the experiment and the number of messages received in each second of the experiment. This is the throughput.

```
1,15,30
2,8,16
...
```

The above output indicates that the end to end throughput in second 1 was 15 and the send to broker throughput in second 1 was 16.

Link to program pending.

## Hardware Configuration

Each test should be ran using Ubuntu 18.04 chameleon cloud VM’s with 8 CPU and 32 GB of RAM. If these hardware specs aren’t attainable, use the nearest available and document the configuration.

# Experiment Configurations

These are the configurations your program should be ran in.

| Producer Machines | Producer Instances | Consumer Machines | Consumer Instances | Message Size |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | tiny |
| 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | small |
| 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | medium |
| 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | large |
| 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | x-large |

If possible, implement these configurations with redundancy enabled and document the configuration.

## Redundancy implementation Details

Place the redundancy implementation details here.

> ## 1 Producer - 1 Consumer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 1 Producer - 1 Consumer - Tiny Message Size
```

> Run one instance of your producer program on one VM. The test should then be repeated for each message size, with a total of 5 test runs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run one instance of your producer program on one VM. Configure the producer to always send the [tiny](./messages/tiny.txt) message.
```
I'd prefer to see all of the tests laid out explicitly for consistency.
